>> What is Software Architecture?
In the software architecture we mostly focus on the structure of the software rather then the implementation details. So it is basically foocused on the 
strcture of the system or the software rather then the implementation part. It focuses on How the components of the app will be going to communicate with each other 
and How they interact with each other.


>> Static website vs Dynamic website
Static website is the one in whcih the content stays almost constant, where in the dynamic website the content will change accordingly to the users 
or they can change and can be fetched by the user inetractions.


>> What are the API?
Application Programming Interface, API basically is the interface or the separating line between some tasks, so it can be helpful for fetching the data , 
for hiding the complexity, or for security applications also, everything is the API in general.


>> HTTP Requests 
Hyper text transfer protocol ( Application layer protocol )
TCP = Transmission control protocol
> TCP manages the internet connections, it is the protocol that implements the 
communication between the client and the server.
> HTTP is like the command language, client and server communicates with this language.


When we try to communicate with the server what happens is we first establish 
the connection between the client and the server, after that the client 
requests something such as GET, POST, PUT or DELETE request.


>>> Single page application 
Single page application or SPA is the type of application such that it only 
loads or refresh the component which is required not the whole page. So in the
general websites it will not refresh just the component rather it will refresh 
the whole page and fetch everything again.


>>> Linux is the unix like operating system, where the kernel is the heart of 
the OS where all the computing and the management part happens. git is the 
version control system, where the github is the cloud based repository 
storage system.

>>> default shell for the MACOS system is Zshell.
