1. Border 
The border has the shorthand notation as 
border:border-width border-style(required) border-color

there are some default values of the border-style which is none,
border color is set to text color , and border width is medium.


2. border radius 
border radius allows us to make the rounded corners.

border-radius
4 values = top-left, top-right, bottom-right, bottol-left
3 values = tl, tr and bl, br 
2 values = tl and br, tr and bl 
1 value = all the corners 

3. Pseudo classes 

4. Pseudo elements 


5. text-align 
text-align property is for aligning the text inside the container.
left,right,center,justify

6. width and height : min-content 
this will take the width as the width of the longest word in the content 
and so the content will not overflow in any case. min-content is the smallest 
size a box can take without overflowing the content. 

7. max-content 
this represents the box's ideal size in case of when infinite space is available 
so it will take the width as the longest tag element in the content. max-content 
is the box ideal size when infinite space is available.

8. fit-content 
this will accordingly take the max-content or the
min-content as the width depending on the parent container. When the infinite 
width is given then the width will be taken as the max-content and if the 
width is limited then the width will be taken as the min-content.

NOTE = max-content will have undesirable effect when it is used inside the 
parent container of the fixed width.

9 overflow 
the overflow property decides what to do in the case of the overflow in the 
content of the boxes, 
- visible = default the content will come out of the box 
- hidden = the output will be clipped 
- scroll = there will be scrollbar for both the axis 
- auto = it will add the scroll bar when necessary 

it should be in the parent container. there is also overflow-x and overflow-y 
for governing the content on each axis. 


10. text-overflow
this property defines how the overflowed content should be displayed 
on the screen as ellipsis, or some string like that. it is generally used 
when the overflow is hidden, because when we apply the text overflow then 
the scroll bar will not further display the overflowed content. 

11. object-fit proeprrty 
this property decides how the inner content such as img or video thumbnail
should be displayed in its parent contaiiner.

object-fit 
cover = the img keeps the aspect ratio but will be clipped to fit 
contain = keeps the aspect ratio but resized to fit in the container 
fill = resized to fill the dimension, can be squished or stretched (default)
none = the object is not resized 
scale-down = smalles version of none or contain 

12. transform 
the transform property is used for transforming the objects based on 
some requirements. 


word-break 
word-wrap
specificity blog
grid if possible
media querries
