Sometimes we want that the states of the two components to change 
together then we have to extract the states from both of the 
component and then move it to their common parent.

Lifting the state up ...

*** preserving the state ***
State is isolated in the react tree, react keeps track of the 
which state belongs to which component in the UI tree.

there are many trees in the browser 
DOM Tree 
CSSOM 
Accessibility tree


ReactDOM api is for updating the DOM from the UI tree.

> state is tied to the position in the UI tree 
  This means that if we render two components side by side in the
  UI tree then we will have sperate states for those two.

  when we render some other component at the place of that component 
  then the satets will be lost.

> same component at the same position preserves the state, here the catch is even 
if we have same components with different props, and we change the order of them 
then also the state will be tied to the position in UI tree.  

e.g. 

{isFancy ? (
        <Counter isFancy={true} /> 
      ) : (
        <Counter isFancy={false} /> 
      )}

Here the position is in the react UI tree not inside the JSX Markup.

Different components at the same position reset the states. also 
when we render different components at the position then it will 
reset the satets of the whole UI subtree.

So in final when we want the states to be reserved then the 
structure of the UI tree should be the same in the re renders.

if we want to explicitely reset the state then we have to 
explicitely render them at the different position. or else we 
have to give the key props in the component.

Whenever the react will render the same component in the same position the 
state will be preserved, for tieing the states to the components we can here 
also give the key to tell the react that, it should consider the right state 
tied with that perticular key.

let's say we are rendering a list of component which shows the name of the 
contact and it has the expand state tied to it, and when pressed it will 
show the email details, so when we render this as a list, and press
the email button, then every time 
the react will render the same components so the state is preserved for the 
first component. so if we 
reverse the list of the components, then the first component will get the 
state it was in the first order. so for differentiating the components we have to 
pass the key props so that it can tie the state to the respective component. 